You left then in the summer of 44.
No, summer of 43.
43.
And by that time had the enrollment gone down?
Yes.
Yes, it went down to I don't know what.
Were there any of the special training units on the campus by that time?
Let's see.
Now, if you will, come back to A&M when the war is over.
When did you get back?
Got back in August of 46.
So the war had been over almost a year.
Yeah, I was in a year of occupation in Japan.
How had you changed?
How had I changed?
I was a little older.
I'm not sure how much wiser.
But, yeah, quite a bit.
Yeah, I changed a lot.
I got back in the end of July.
Got married in August.
And we had a week honeymoon at a friend's house in Pont, Texas.
And then went to A&M, where I got $90 a month.
From what?
From the government, GI Bill, which paid my rent, paid my expenses at school, paid my food, everything.
And it paid everything.
Where did y'all live?
They lived in Hart Hall.
They put two of those rooms together with the bathroom in the middle.
And one room was our kitchen and one room was our bedroom.
Tell us, I didn't know that.
Tell us about living in the middle of the campus.
It was wonderful.
Sarah just thought she had died and gone to heaven.
Was Hart Hall filled with couples?
Yes, filled with couples.
And there was, the toilet paper was very rare.
Cokes were very rare.
They didn't have any coke colas.
And I've forgotten the other things that were rare, but things like toilet paper.
Sarah and all the women were at all the midnight yell practices because they would bring the toilet paper, throw it up there, and they were there folding it all.
I do remember that so well, Sarah.
All the girls would pick up the rolls and try to fold it back.
Describe the life in the dormitory.
Did you all sometimes more than one couple eat together?
Was there a social interaction of those young couples?
Yeah, there were some.
But it was still a business kind of a thing.
We were still in school, and I was more serious about my school.
I made a hell of a lot better grades when I came back than I did when I was there.
You still majored in economics.
Yeah, yeah, and I was 14 hours short, so I got the 14 hours.
All right.
What was your attire then for going to class?
Anything.
All right, so you can close.
And we went to school with core people and I got to meet some of the core people.
Did the routine of conversation on the sidewalk and the hallway, was it different then than what it had been?
Oh yeah, we had a, there were as many veterans as there were.
Well, there weren't, but it seemed like it.
And you'd walk down the campus, there were as many civilians as there were, as I recall it.
And the courses I took had more civilians than the Corps.
And civilians meaning veterans.
We had a veterans organization.
Sid Smith was elected president of the veterans class and I was vice president of it.
And we had a meeting over at
Whatever that place was where the chapel is now, what do we call that?
Was that Assembly Hall?
Assembly Hall, yeah, Assembly Hall.
That's it.
And we got the place that was full of veterans.
We had our agenda and we would meet from time to time and have veterans problems just like they have today.
Never any demonstrations.
Who was the key administrator then at A&M?
Who was in charge?
The president?
T.O.
Walton was the president.
Or Gilchrist?
Gilchrist was, I guess, when I came back.
Yeah, T.O.
Walton was when I first got to the NA.
And Gilchrist was, yeah, he was the CEO.
So you weren't involved in that march on Gilchrist's house.
in the fall of 46 by the Corps members?
No.
Do you remember any incidents where a sophomore who had never been anywhere during the war got out of line with a civilian?
No Corps member ever?
No.
Okay.
No, I never remember anything like that.
Did you and your older colleagues look at some of the things happening in the Corps and smile and chuckle?
Yeah.
but have respect for it, as we do today.
What was, as you thought, as you realize now, what was your basic attitude about being at A&M in 1946?
What were you there for?
I was there to get a degree.
And you were then, want that degree, you were going to go out and do what?
Just automatic.
It never occurred to me to do anything else but to get a degree.
And then I had no idea what I was going to do.
Now, what did Sarah do during those years?
Sarah got with the other girls and found out where the coats were and where the toilet paper was and all the stuff that we needed.
But she loved her time.
Did many of those wives work?
I'm sure they did, but Sarah didn't, and neither did her friends.
Bob Latimer was there, and Jane and Sarah met each other for the first time and became good friends, I remember.
Describe your apartment.
Well, it was just two square rooms and they built in a sink and we had an oven.
And Sarah was a home ec major so Sarah never had any problem cooking.
She loved to cook and so she made fine meals for me.
I mean, I love always eating well.
Was the furniture provided by?
Yeah, furniture was provided.
It was GI furniture, probably the same furniture we had when we were students.
We just had more of it.
We had two beds and well I guess one bed looked probably like it did when the student was there.
And then we had the extra.
So two single beds?
Yeah.
Two single beds, they were like that.
They weren't stacked.
No, no, they weren't stacked, but they weren't straight across.
They were swayed back.
They had no boards across it like you would a normal bed does.
And then the other room, you had what kind of a table?
It was a table for me to study on.
I had to put my books on.
Did you eat at that same table?
Yeah, we ate at that same table.
It was big enough to seat?
Four.
You could seat four real easily at that table.
Now, what did you couples then do on weekends for relaxation?
You know, we went to movies.
There really wasn't a lot to do.
Sometimes we went to Houston.
We were so close to Houston.
Where were the movies?
The movies were still in Guy and All and they were in Bryan.
You had a car.
I had a car then, yeah.
Tell me about the car.
It was my father and mother had given me, Sarah and I, a car for our wedding presents.
We had two cars.
We had that car and we had a, Sarah had a convertible.
I don't know what year it was.
Hers was a couple years old and mine was brand name.
Couldn't be a couple years old at 46 because they'd make cars during the war.
I don't know what year it was.
It was a convertible and it was a convertible that she got, I don't know what year it was.
And was the... I took that car to Fort Sill, Oklahoma a couple of times.
It was a very good car.
And when I was stationed up there, I don't know, I'd leave late or something.
I'd have to get up there, so I'd go up and come back the next weekend or something like that.
And this new one your dad gave you was a what?
Ford.
It was a Ford.
A 46 Ford?
Uh-huh.
So that was a new one.
Yeah.
All right.
And then you graduate when?
I graduated in January, the end of January of 47.
Seven.
So you're only there, you only needed 14 hours to graduate?
Mm-hmm.
So I was there one semester.
Okay.
But through a football season.
Through the exciting part of the year.
Okay.
There was a lot of happening.
We went to, again, we went to all the sporting events.
Sarah went to the basketball games, swimming meets, whatever A&M was playing, and we went in.
Alright, let's talk about some of the events on campus.
What all occurred in Guyon Hall?
Well, Town Hall had singers, dance groups.
Do you remember any of them?
No, and I should have because I was Town Hall manager too my junior year.
And I'd be darned if I can remember
And some of the dances, were there big?
There weren't, no.
There were all ballet or anything like that, no.
These were just probably Mexican dance groups.
Okay, so movies and concerts.
Was there anything, was there any religious type event in Guyana?
Yeah, yeah.
Church.
Of what sort?
Well, visitors visiting ones that would be Presbyterian one week.
Was there one every Sunday?
One every Sunday.
Was there a religious emphasis week yet?
Yeah, I think there was a religious emphasis week, yeah.
I was a member of a church in Houston, Central Presbyterian Church, and so I go to church all the time, and I went there from the United States.
When you attended church at A&M, did you go to the A&M Presbyterian or did you attend on campus?
I attended on campus.
What was the general religious attitude of the students?
Were they mainline Protestants, Catholic, Jewish?
Why?
I would say mainline Protestant.
Do you remember any Jewish students?
Yeah, oh yeah.
How were they treated?
We called every one of them, hey Jew, come here.
They'd come.
You know, and we loved them.
Loved them dearly.
We had one in an outfit.
Did they think of that as a negative term?
I don't think so.
If they did, I would have.
At the time, I mean, if you had somebody with a squint eye, you'd say, hey squint eye, you know, they were really cruel to each other.
Children were really cruel to others.
Were there some Hispanic students?
Yeah.
Chico Lozano, I remember we had in our outfit too and they gave him, unmitigated, they all about eating tamales all the time and all that.
Now I eat more tamales than Chico ever ate I think.
Were there any international students?
There were, but they weren't in the outfits.
They didn't go through the... But do you remember there being treated positively?
No, I don't remember anything about the international students.
Let's see.
And the only time you were there in the summer for a student was during the war.
You didn't go to summer school any other time.
Is that right?
At A&M?
No, but I only had one summer, only one summer.
And there were no women in those summer classes?
No.
Okay, but I know that later there would be, but not another.
So you never had any classes with women?
Never had any classes with women.
Okay.
All right, after the war, do you remember any of the, in that one semester in the fall, do you remember any important faculty members that caught your attention?
After the war.
Same one for there.
Okay.
Alright, so did you seek a job and if so how did employment and you get together?
No, my father was in the insurance business in Houston with a large insurance company and he talked to me about coming to work there at that company and so I decided I'd try that out.
Alright, you remember probably
observing the others, what kind of job situation did the typical Aggie have right after the war?
Well, a lot of the Aggies thought that life had passed them by.
Really, seriously.
I can't remember several of this.
Judd and I, we have lasted three or four years here in the service and, you know, here we are.
What chance have we got to really do anything?
Several people thought about that.
And I never did.
Well, did they get jobs pretty easily?
Yeah, they were all, everybody got jobs.
My class did very well.
Did the recruiters come to the campus to hire them?
I don't know.
Oh, okay.
I didn't ever pursue that method, but I'm sure that there were some.
You know, when you're in a big city, it's a little different from San Marcos and some of the smaller towns.
They didn't know.
Some of those guys that live on the farm didn't want to go back to the farm.
So you officially finished in January of 47.
Right.
Was there a commencement ceremony?
Yes, there was a commencement ceremony, and I did not go to it.
Why?
I don't know why.
There was something else going on, and very few people that I knew did.
Isn't that funny?
Because I'm thinking of your nature now.
I know.
Oh, God, I wouldn't think of doing it well.
But just think back in those days, what we had been through.
War and the comeback.
We didn't get our bids.
We didn't get to a lot of things.
And we got taken away.
And we had to come back.
And we were just thinking, well, we just need to get out and get started.
And we were behind four years.
As you are back, did you think about some of your classmates who weren't there?
Oh, yeah, sure.
Who couldn't come back?
Sure.
The, let's see, project houses, were they, who was in the project houses after the war?
You remember those at Southgate?
Were they couples?
Back in the Depression, it was poor kids.
Yeah.
Well, were there any temporary, were there trailers and temporary,
For married couples yet?
Yeah.
Where were they?
When I came back, they were over in that area and just all around, wherever there was vacant lots.
Some of the married students lived in trailers.
Because the dorm rooms weren't that many.
There weren't enough to go around.
And we, somehow, I just looked down, I guess, in getting one.
Now, where did y'all shop?
Where did Sarah buy groceries?
Well, from Smith.
What's his name?
Where was that?
It was on the corner of what is now George Bush and the Easton Highway.
Southgate?
Yeah.
There was a grocery store there.
And if y'all, you and Sarah, after the war, if y'all went to eat out in metropolitan Brazos County.
We ate out much.
It was a hamburger somewhere, ate out at somebody's house.
We didn't really, we didn't go out in a lot.
And you married couples then, you didn't go to, or did y'all go to bonfire?
Yeah, went to everything.
Okay.
Let's reach back now.
Was there an Aggie bonfire before the war?
Yeah.
Where?
I'm going to say the bonfire was where it is now.
Before the war.
I thought it was on the bill field.
In front of the... Before there was an MSC.
Well, what went into the bonfire then?
What got burned up?
What was there?
Whatever you could find.
Railroad ties or whatever you could find.
It was not really an organized thing as it is now.
I was not a member of it.
I don't remember actually ever working on it.
As a fish, you didn't help carry something?
I don't remember doing that.
I think I would have remembered that.
Silver Taps?
Oh yes, I remember Silver Taps.
I remember that.
Where?
That was always at the academic building.
Tell me about that.
Describe that evening's routine.
Well, it was at night.
I want to say just before times I guess, at 10 o'clock, something like that.
You know, time to study beforehand, then to go over there and everybody walked, you know, over behind the academic building.
And it was, oh it was really a very moving experience.
It still is, of course.
That's a really wonderful tradition.
Was there an Aggie muster?
Oh yeah.
Where?
The Buster, we had in front of, I remember hearing the one on Corregidor.
We had it on the radio.
We got it in College Station.
We could hear some of it.
It was really something.
Talk about that.
Well, it was just exciting.
They got a shortwave radio or something.
I don't remember much about what was said other than the fact that this happened before we left, of course.
Did you have any interaction with General Moore?
No.
Before he left to go over there?
So you didn't know any of the people personally that were on Corregidor?
No.
No, I did not.
Was that Corregidor broadcast played during?
During a yell practice.
Oh, during a yell practice.
Yeah.
We came up during a muster, and it could have been during a muster.
I think it was during a muster.
I said Yale Project, but I think it was during a muster.
I think they had a muster at Corrigan.
Oh, I know they did.
I think that's what we got this.
And because of the time zone, it was held there before.
I don't know what time.
Yeah, it was there, but at A&M it was at night.
All right.
Yelp practices were held where?
YMCA.
Right there in that little street.
You wouldn't believe that everybody could get there, but everybody did.
After a football game, what happened to... Yelp practices seemed like it was every night.
I don't know how many Yelp practices a week we had, but we had a lot of them.
There were more than one.
But they were fun because we could get away from the sophomores and we could get our ass beat during yellow practice.
All right, now, when you came back, the freshmen were all out at Bryan Field.
Yeah.
Did the campus seem more crowded when you got back in 46 than it was when you left?
No, it didn't.
But that Bryan Field, I don't know when that started, whether it was that way.
I got back after I left and graduated.
I believe so.
They were trying to do away, the reason they were trying to do away with all that hazing.
And they were getting the freshmen away and that was probably the worst thing that ever happened.
And that was a terrible thing, you know, separating the students.
The people that went out there, I don't know why they ever stayed there.
Nothing out there that would be any fun.
Let's see, I'm going through, we've already done court trips.
Other places, did you ever go to Hardlickers?
Yeah.
Was that Mr. Ed's?
Oh, oh, so it's Ed Hardlickers.
Yeah.
Okay.
You didn't ever have a, yeah, tell me about final review.
It would be before your senior year, but what was it like and where, who came?
Well, everybody was.
Where was it held?
In front of the MSC, before the MSC was there.
In front of the Simpsons.
About how long did the final review take?
It took a long time, but I don't know.
We didn't have anything else to do, so it was just a lot of ceremony, hurry up, wait.
It was kind of getting ready for the Army.
All of that was just so good for us because we didn't have any trouble with getting into the Army at all.
It was just routine.
That San Antonio experience was, Jesus, we loved killing.
And Fort Sill was just
except that I didn't have to worry about sophomores.
You know, all of that.
We had that routine down.
But final review, I went through several of them and they were wonderful experiences.
I can't really pinpoint anything.
Was there any monkey business connected to the final review?
No, not that I know of.
Any monkey business with silver taps?
No.
Why not?
Never.
That was just a tradition.
And I would dare say nothing but fun with you either.
Those were just sacred, like going to church.
That's the kind of answer that I wanted to give.
That's what I assumed.
Okay, let's see if we can generalize then.
A&M had a student body that had some diversity in it.
No blacks.
No, but in terms of... We had some Hispanics, yes.
Nice guys.
And put up with a lot of stuff.
What made that group inclusive?
Was there something about whether you were rich or poor, country or rural?
No, I remember this one particular guy in our outfit, the class of 43, actually was a year ahead of me.
His name was Abe Wagner, a Jewish fellow from Houston.
And nobody knew him beforehand.
He didn't go to Lamar, he went to another school.
But he was included in everything.
They were crazy about Abe, but they called him a Jew.
And they would look around and say, where's the Jew?
You know, if he wasn't there.
Hey, Jew, get over here.
We're going to go do something.
What made, because I've heard in other places like at the University of Texas, they'd be excluded.
No, they were not excluded.
No.
Always included.
I don't know.
But there was never a time that I knew of where there was any discrimination other than just in their language.
I've always guessed what I was fishing for.
Only one thing mattered.
It was an Aggie.
Yeah.
Yeah, they were Aggies, so that's fine.
Let's see, did you all ever talk about Highway 6 running both ways?
Oh yeah.
And what did that mean?
That means you could get the hell out of there if you wanted to and if you didn't like what was going on.
And we lost a lot of good students.
We ran them off.
We ran off a lot of good students.
Alright, when you're getting ready to, you're approaching graduation now, you're newly married, what kind of world did you think you were entering?
I was probably one of the most naive people in the world.
I had absolutely no idea.
And it was just one of those things that you just, I guess, when you look back at, when I used to worry about things in high school, about my future, what I would do, you know, have to do after a certain prom or something like that, some date or some girlfriend.
When I got to A&M, it was all structured.
I was told what to do.
And then, until I got up to my senior bat, I didn't have to worry about what I was going to have tomorrow.
Then I got to be a senior, and I was supposed to practice that,
I got thrown into the army and I'm a second lieutenant and I'm still told every time I get up in the morning that somebody else tells me what I'm going to do.
So I really never had any, I didn't have any time to plan my own destiny, my own future.
Alright, as you left the campus and went into the real world, we'll call it, what, as you look back now,
What did your having been at A&M mean for you?
What did A&M contribute to your... Well, it just contributed to everything because my whole world was around A&M and A&M traditions, A&M functions and A&M people that I was totally dependent on.
Every day, I saw them every day.
We lived together, we ate together, slept together.
A&M became just an integral part.
What values and attitudes did A&M give you as you look back on that?
I guess loyalty actually is probably one of the most, loyalty and
friendships.